Terms of Service & Community Rules Update: Volunteer responsibility, reporting abuse & keeping it clean (#4482)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Reporting_Bad_Behaviour/Abuse/en.md

# Reporting Abuse

## I don't know if I should report this or not

> Yes, you should!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please do.
```

sounds too harsh as-is.

> Yes, you should!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Yes, you should!**
```
not really needed but it looks a lot more encouraging this way

> If you're uncomfortable enough that you're reading this page, please contact us at once at [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) with as much detail about your problem as you can.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're uncomfortable enough that you're reading this page, please contact us at once at [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) with as much detail about your problem as possible.
```

We have zero tolerance towards any sort of unwanted sexual attention or advances in this community.

The abuse email address is only seen by these two users:

- [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2) (the creator of the game)
- [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335) (the community manager)

Nothing you send to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) will ever be shared with anybody else other than those two people.

## Someone's made inappropriate sexual advances or remarks towards me!

Scroll through the sub-headings below to find out what to do, depending on where this all happened.

### In the in-game chat

> Immediately block the user by right-clicking their username and selecting ``Ignore User``.
> 
> You should also report them immediately by clicking the ``Report User`` button and filling in the prompts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Immediately block the user by right-clicking their username and selecting `Ignore User`.

You should also report them immediately by clicking the `Report User` button and filling in the prompts.
```

> If you feel the remarks/advances were highly inappropriate or you are an underage user, please send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as you can.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you feel the remarks/advances were highly inappropriate or you are an underage user, please send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as possible.
```

### In a public post on the osu! forums

Report the post to any member of our [Global Moderation Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Global_Moderation_Team) as soon as possible.

> To do so, click the username of any GMT member in the list on that page. This will take you to their profile. If you are unsure of who to click, just use [this link instead](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335).

Reviewer 2: perhaps you should note that the link belongs to your (Ephemeral's) userpage somewhere?

Author: i should probably replace this with a sendto chat link instead actually

Reviewer: This method of reporting is pretty shoddy

Author: is there a better method for forum posts?

Reviewer 2: another method for reporting forum posts is using the report button found on the user page and attaching the link there. that can also be mentioned here aside from reporting to a GMT through PMs, which some users prefer to do so since there isn't a report button specifically for forum posts/threads

Reviewer: There isn't, just saying we probably want to get that fixed at some point.

Click the button with an envelope in it just below the user's country flag. This will take you to the chat screen.

Paste a link to the forum post that contains the problematic content and tell the GMT a little bit about what's going on. They will remove the post for you as soon as they are able.

> You can also report the post by opening up your game and typing `!report <person> <problem>`, where  `<person>` is the username of the person causing you problems, and `<problem>` is the link to the post followed by a short explanation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also report the post by opening up your game and typing `!report <person> <problem>`, where  `<person>` is the username of the person causing you problems, and `<problem>` is the link to the post followed by a short explanation. If there are spaces in the person's username, please replace them with underscores (`_`).
```

> You can also report the post by opening up your game and typing ``!report <person> <problem>``, where  ``<person>`` is the username of the person causing you problems, and ``<problem>`` is the link to the post followed by a short explanation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also report the post by opening up your game and typing `!report <person> <problem>`, where  `<person>` is the username of the person causing you problems, and `<problem>` is the link to the post followed by a short explanation.
```
single set of backticks would suffice

> If the post still isn't gone within a reasonable timeframe, please send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as you can.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the post still isn't gone within a reasonable timeframe, please send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as possible.
```

> ### On a public osu! related Discord server

Reviewer 3: think it's a compund adjective
```suggestion
### On a public osu!–related Discord server
```

> Immediately block the user by right-clicking their username and selecting ``Block`` in the drop-down list that appears.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Immediately block the user by right-clicking their username and selecting `Block` in the drop-down list that appears.
```

Afterwards, contact the administrators of the server at once by looking for someone at the very top of the users list and let them know what's happened. If you can't figure out who is an administrator, look for someone with a crown next to their name - they are the server owner and are responsible for what happens within it.

> Should this abuse continue and the administrators do nothing about it, [please notify the Discord Trust & Safety team by filing out a report using this link.](https://dis.gd/request)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Should this abuse continue and the administrators do nothing about it, [please notify the Discord Trust & Safety team by filing out a report](https://dis.gd/request).
```

In addition, if you know the osu! username of the person bothering you, please send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as possible and it will be investigated promptly.

> ## A member of one of the volunteer teams (NAT, GMT) is approaching/talking/acting towards me inappropriately!

Reviewer 4: Maybe these should include BN too, especially for more sensitive cases where they may not feel comfortable reporting to the NAT about
```suggestion
## A member of one of the volunteer teams (NAT, GMT, BN) is approaching/talking/acting towards me inappropriately!
```

> ## A member of one of the volunteer teams (NAT, GMT, BN) is approaching/talking/acting towards me inappropriately!

Reviewer 3: it's odd that BN is mentioned here as a team of volunteers, but not in ToS (and not in the next heading)

Reviewer: It's also odd to mention the teams at all, no? Why not just leave it as "someone"?

Reviewer 5: I think the distinction is that if a member of the community is harrassing you then you can reach out to GMT but if it's a staff member you're having trouble with you should escalate one step further immediately.

Author: the idea behind the distinction is that it is even more urgent coming from a person sitting in a position of trust

BN probably shouldn't be there though since they were removed from the TOS elevated volunteer stuff

Send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as possible **immediately**.

If anything you want to include makes you feel embarrassed, please blank it out. This includes screenshots, chat logs, basically anything you can attach to an email.

We'll look into it as soon as we can.

> ## Someone I know is being abused by a member of the volunteer teams (NAT, GMT) but is too afraid to speak up!

Reviewer 5: Add BN to the list of teams on this line (or define it elsewhere and just omit it here)

If the post still isn't gone within a reasonable timeframe, please send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as possible.

### On a public osu!–related Discord server

Immediately block the user by right-clicking their username and selecting `Block` in the drop-down list that appears.

Afterwards, contact the administrators of the server at once by looking for someone at the very top of the users list and let them know what's happened. If you can't figure out who is an administrator, look for someone with a crown next to their name - they are the server owner and are responsible for what happens within it.

Should this abuse continue and the administrators do nothing about it, [please notify the Discord Trust & Safety team by filing out a report](https://dis.gd/request).

In addition, if you know the osu! username of the person bothering you, please send an email to [abuse@ppy.sh](mailto:abuse@ppy.sh) containing as much information as possible and it will be investigated promptly.

### On a Twitter linked to an osu! user's profile

> Click the three dots in the top right of the problem tweet and click 'Report Tweet'. Make sure to follow the prompts and read them carefully. You might also want to [read this link](https://help.twitter.com/en/safety-and-security/report-abusive-behavior) for more information on the process.
> 
> Afterwards, either block or mute the user in question by clicking the three dots in the top right of their tweet (if you're using the website or mobile client). Consult [this link](https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/blocking-and-unblocking-accounts) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click the three dots in the top right of the problem tweet and click 'Report Tweet'. Make sure to follow the prompts and read them carefully. You might also want to read [Twitter's guide on reporting abusive behaviour](https://help.twitter.com/en/safety-and-security/report-abusive-behavior) for more information on the process.

Afterwards, either block or mute the user in question by clicking the three dots in the top right of their tweet (if you're using the website or mobile client). Consult [Twitter's guide on blocking accounts](https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/blocking-and-unblocking-accounts) for more information.
```

> Please be aware that the person you block will be aware that you have blocked them if they check your Twitter profile. If you are worried this will make the problem worse elsewhere, mute them instead. This will still remove their tweets from your timeline and prevent you from seeing any more content from them, but they will still be able to see all the tweets you make and can comment on them.

Reviewer 3: a simplified version that reads better
```suggestion
Please be aware that the person will see you have blocked them if they check your Twitter profile. If you are worried this will make the problem worse elsewhere, mute them instead. This will remove their tweets from your timeline and prevent you from seeing any more content from them, but they will still be able to see and comment on all the tweets you make.
```
